CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

The ROS2 KUKA Sunrise driver is being developed and maintained by the kroshu team, but everyone is welcome to contribute. Please take the following aspects into consideration when making contributions:

- By default the Git ["Fork and Branch"](https://blog.scottlowe.org/2015/01/27/using-fork-branch-git-workflow/) workflow should be followed.
- To foster a high quality product, feature extensions and improvements shall be done after careful design choices. Therefore, design documents and discussion with the maintainers prior to any development is strongly encouraged to make sure that everyone agrees on the issue and the suggested solution. Depending on the individual case the way to do this could be through a GitHub issue, a pull request to the design drafts folder or a new discussion on the repository's Discussions forum.
- Code quality in this repository is monitored via industrial_ci and SonarCloud. All changes must pass the checks performed by these. (There is some flexibility to test coverage)


Any contribution that you make to this repository will
be under the Apache 2 License, as dictated by that
[license](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html):

~~~
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
   any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
   by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
   this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
   Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
   the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
   with Licensor regarding such Contributions.
~~~

Commit message:

Add documentation (#125)
* clean up doc

* add contributing guide

* remove stale lines

* skeleton md

* common api

* summary for common ifs

* supported features table

* control mode defs

* rename md

* additional packages

* clean up

* moveit integration

* clean up

* codespell

* iiqka instructions

* kss doc

* add known issues

* sunrise

* rsi context for older versions

* fix whitespace

* codespell

* Update kuka_sunrise_fri_driver/src/connection_helpers/fri_connection.cpp

* realtime guide 1

* realtime cleanup

* indents

* code block

* CODE BLOCKS

* code block rt

* format

* add note

* certificates

---------

Co-authored-by: Aron Svastits <svastits1@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Issue tracking

If you have questions, suggestions or found a bug, feel free to open an [issue](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/issues).
When filing an issue, please check open issues to make sure somebody else hasn't already reported it. Please try to include as much information as you can, including:
- A reproducible test case or series of steps
- The version/commit hash of our code being used
- Any modifications you've made relevant to the bug
- Anything unusual about your environment or deployment

Please do not add labels to the issue, that should be handled by the maintainers.

## Contributing

Contributions via pull requests are much appreciated. Before sending us a pull request, please ensure that:

- Your PR addresses only one issue
- Your PR has a descriptive title and a short summary
- All pipelines are green, including
    - Industrial CI
    - Sonarcloud
    - Spell checks
    - Linters

To send us a pull request, please:
- Discuss the proposed changes with the maintainers, preferably in an issue
- Fork the repository
- Modify the source focusing on the specific change you are contributing
- Ensure that local tests pass (`colcon test` and `pre-commit` run)
- Pay attention to any automated CI failures reported in the pull request, and stay involved in the conversation

## Licensing
Any contribution that you make to this repository will
be under the Apache 2 License, as dictated by that
[license](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html):

~~~
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
   any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
   by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
   this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
   Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
   the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
   with Licensor regarding such Contributions.
~~~
