README.md, before:

# ROS2 KUKA Drivers

This repository contains ROS2 drivers for all KUKA operating systems.

Github CI | SonarCloud
------------| ---------------
[![Build Status](https://github.com/kroshu//kuka_drivers/workflows/CI/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/kroshu/ros2_kuka_sunrise_fri_driver/actions) | [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kroshu_kuka_drivers&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=kroshu_kuka_drivers)

# Requirements
The drivers require a system with ROS installed. It is recommended to use Ubuntu 22.04 with ROS humble. Iron Irwini has breaking changes in the moveit API, thus it is not yet supported.
It is also recommended to use a client machine with a real-time kernel, as all three drivers require cyclic, real-time communication. Due to the real-time requirement, Windows systems are not recommended and covered in the documentation.


# Installation
The driver is not available as a binary package, building from source is necessary.

Create ROS2 workspace (if not already created).
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ros2_ws/src
```

Clone KUKA ROS2 repositories.
```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers.git
vcs import < kuka_drivers/upstream.repos
```

Install and initialize rosdep (if not already done)
```bash
sudo apt install python3-rosdep
sudo rosdep init
```

Install dependencies using `rosdep`.
```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
rosdep update
sudo apt upgrade
rosdep install --from-paths . --ignore-src --rosdistro $ROS_DISTRO -y
```

Build all packages in workspace.
```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build
```

Source workspace.
```bash
# Replace ".bash" with your shell if you're not using bash
# Possible values are: setup.bash, setup.sh, setup.zsh
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash
```

# Getting Started
Documentation of this project can be found on the repository's [Wiki](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/wiki) page.

If you find something confusing, not working, or would like to contribute, please read our [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening an issue or creating a pull request.

Commit message:

Migrate master branch to ROS Jazzy (#175)
* Add basic support for ros2 jazzy

* change ros-industrial ci to jazzy

* temporarily removed "got segment base" check for unittests

* temporarily removed got segment base checks for multi robot startups

* changed industrial_ci to run on ubuntu 24.04 noble

* configured test suite for rsi_simulator and added dummy test

* update readme from humble to jazzy

* remove unused segment base checks

* update readme

* update readme (CI and sonarcloud checks for both jazzy and humble)

* change readme github industrial ci link to redirect to github actions

* address code-formatting requirements (pre-commit)

* update README

* update tests with robot initialized check

---------

Co-authored-by: Áron Svastits <49677296+Svastits@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# ROS2 KUKA Drivers

This repository contains ROS2 drivers for all KUKA operating systems.

ROS2 Distro | Branch | Github CI | SonarCloud
------------ | -------------- | -------------- | --------------
**Jazzy** | [`master`](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/tree/master) | [![Build Status](https://github.com/kroshu//kuka_drivers/actions/workflows/industrial_ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/actions) | [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kroshu_kuka_drivers&metric=alert_status)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=kroshu_kuka_drivers)
**Humble** | [`humble`](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/tree/humble) | [![Build Status](https://github.com/kroshu//kuka_drivers/actions/workflows/industrial_ci.yml/badge.svg?branch=humble)](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/actions) | [![Quality Gate Status](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kroshu_kuka_drivers&metric=alert_status&branch=humble)](https://sonarcloud.io/dashboard?id=kroshu_kuka_drivers)

# Requirements
The drivers require a system with ROS installed. It is recommended to use Ubuntu 24.04 with ROS Jazzy.

Additionally, there exists a ROS Humble version of the drivers, and its corresponding configuration can be found under the `humble` branch.

It is also recommended to use a client machine with a real-time kernel, as all three drivers require cyclic, real-time communication. Due to the real-time requirement, Windows systems are not recommended and covered in the documentation.


# Installation
The driver is not available as a binary package, building from source is necessary.

Create ROS2 workspace (if not already created).
```bash
mkdir -p ~/ros2_ws/src
```

Clone KUKA ROS2 repositories.
```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws/src
git clone https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers.git
vcs import < kuka_drivers/upstream.repos
```

Install and initialize rosdep (if not already done)
```bash
sudo apt install python3-rosdep
sudo rosdep init
```

Install dependencies using `rosdep`.
```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
rosdep update
sudo apt upgrade
rosdep install --from-paths . --ignore-src --rosdistro $ROS_DISTRO -y
```

Build all packages in workspace.
```bash
cd ~/ros2_ws
colcon build
```

Source workspace.
```bash
# Replace ".bash" with your shell if you're not using bash
# Possible values are: setup.bash, setup.sh, setup.zsh
source ~/ros2_ws/install/setup.bash
```

# Getting Started
Documentation of this project can be found on the repository's [Wiki](https://github.com/kroshu/kuka_drivers/wiki) page.

If you find something confusing, not working, or would like to contribute, please read our [contributing guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) before opening an issue or creating a pull request.
