### Requirements:

- KUKA LBR iiwa

- KUKA Sunrise Cabinet
  
  - Running Sunrise OS 1.16 (other versions might also work)
  
  - Sunrise FRI 1.16

- KUKA smartPAD

- Client computer
  
  - Connected with an ethernet cable to the KUKA Line Interface (KLI) of the Sunrise Cabinet
  
  - ROS2 on real-time linux (preempt_rt)
  
  - kuka_sunrise metapackage is downloaded
  
  - key_teleop package is downloaded

### System start-up

1. **Sync the Sunrise Project ROS2_Control to the robot**
   
   Start the Robot Application ROS2_Control.java, which contains a state machine and a TCP interface so that full control over the state of the robot can be realized from ROS2.
   
   After everything has started properly, controlling the robot is possible using the standard ROS2 tools. No interaction with the SmartPad is needed, except for when the application has to be stopped. However, the external control is terminated if a safety condition is triggered by the SmartPad.

2. **Set IP address of client machine in the Sunrise Project**
   
   Set the variable `_remoteIP` in the file serialization/FRIConfigurationParams of the Sunrise Project to the IP address of your client machine. (TODO: use rosparam)

3. **Set IP address of Sunrise Cabinet in the ROS2 sunrise driver**
   
   Set the parameter `controller_ip` in the launch file `launch/kuka_sunrise.launch.py`

Then continue with one of the following options:

#### Starting the robot driver only

4. **On the client machine run `ros2 launch kuka_sunrise kuka_sunrise.launch.py`**
   
   This launch file starts 2 nodes:
   
   - Robot Manager:
     
     Manages lifecycle, initiates connection to the Robot Application running on the Sunrise Cabinet, initiates real-time control, handles errors etc.
   
   - Robot Controller:
     
     Real-time monitoring and commanding of robot states through FRI

5. **Activate robot state monitoring with ROS2 lifecycle CLI**
   
   1. **`ros2 lifecycle configure robot_manager`**
   
   Now the connection to the Robot Application should be established and the messages
   
   ```
   Command received: Connect
   Command executed.
   ```
   
   should appear on the smartPAD log. If you don't see these messages, then the ports on your Sunrise Cabinet are probably not properly set up. Make sure that the TCP port 30000 is allowed.
   
   2. **`ros2 lifecycle activate robot_manager`**
   
   Now the connection through the FRI should be established and the messages 
   
   ```
   Command received: Start FRI
   Command executed.
   ```
   
   should appear on the smartPAD log. If the second message is missing, there was an error and the FRI session could not be started. In this case the command `ros2 lifecycle activate robot_manager` also returns with a failure message on the client machine. The most likely issue is that the ports for the FRI were configured incorrectly, or they are not allowed through the firewall of the client machine. Refer to the Sunrise FRI documentation for more info on how to set up FRI.

6. **Monitor the robot state by running `ros2 topic echo /lbr_joint_state`**

#### Starting the example application teleop_guided_robot

4. **On the client machine run `ros2 launch teleop_guided_robot teleop_guided_robot.launch.py`**
   
   This launch file starts the driver, a joint position controller and a system manager.

5. **Activate robot state control with the ROS2 lifecycle CLI**
   
   1. **`ros2 lifecycle configure system_manager`**
   
   2. **`ros2 lifecycle activate system_manager`**

6. **In a new terminal run `ros2 run key_teleop key_teleop`**
   
   You should now be able to operate the robot joint position from this window. You can increment/decrement the position of the active joint with the horizontal arrows and change the active joint with the vertical arrows.
