# Relationship to ros2_control

## Summary

With our approach in the ROS2 KUKA Sunrise driver we chose to leverage the standard ROS2 features and framework instead of integrating it into the ros2_control framework. The reason for this is that we believe that ROS2 (once it is mature enough) should be able to meet the requirements for distributed, real-time control systems. Therefore, we want to experiment with an approach where hardware resources and controllers are also first-class citizens of the ROS2 ecosystem. Our hope is that such a solution could simplify the control stack, and also that any feature or tool inspired by the control loop design or the rest of the system could be of benefit to the other (access control, composite components, dataflow programming, lifecycle management, runtime reconfiguration etc.). Thus, we are designing the ROS2 KUKA Sunrise driver to be able to be the part of such a showcase solution.

Note: throughout this document ROSX stands for ROS1 and ROS2, and rosX_control stands for ros_control and ros2_control in general.

## Disclaimer

The discussion below represents our opinion on these topics, which we developed by carefully going through related code documentations, source code, studies, presentations, forum discussions, GitHub issues etc. We do not want to make false claims and statements w.r.t. ROSX and rosX_control, therefore please feel free contact us if you think we misevaluated something, know of additional relevant online resources, or if you just want to share your own thoughts on this topic, preferably by joining the discussion [Relationship to ros2_control](https://github.com/kroshu/ros2_kuka_sunrise/discussions/ros2_control).

## About this document

This document is meant to serve as a detailed explanation on why we think that our approach is worth pursuing. It contains a discussion on the more important features of ROSX and rosX_control, with a focus on the capabilities of ros_control that made it invaluable for ROS1, and how these capabilities appear in ROS2 itself. However, this document does not cover every feature of of rosX_control and does not provide a complete design on how the same functionalities could be implemented in a ROS2-based control stack. That would be a large enough project in itself, and right now we are working on the KUKA Sunrise driver. Nevertheless, this document should provide enough justification for our approach.

## Feature comparisons

### ROS1 and ros_control

The de-facto standard tool for implementing real-time external control interfaces of robots to connect them to ROS1 is the ros_control stack. ROS1 in general is not designed for real-time systems [[1][1]], therefore ros_control introduces its own light-weight framework to enable the modular design of control loops. The controllers and the controlled hardware are then represented as a single node in ROS1. The tools of ros_control helps with the integration of real-time robot interfaces into ROS1, and some out-of-the-box controllers can be easily reused to set up the control loop quickly. However, the software stack of ros_control is not as feature-rich and flexible as ROS1 itself (e.g. composite controllers [[2][2]], controller-chaining [[3][3]], different update rates [[4][4]], one-shot updates [[5][5]), and developers and users have to make themselves familiar with its usage.

### ROS1 and ROS2

Opposed to ROS1, ROS2 is being designed from the ground up to support real-time applications that span multiple nodes [[6][6]]. The extent to which this holds for nodes communicating over the network is of course limited, but leading DDS vendors support shared-memory data transfer inside a single process [[7][7]][[8][8]], or alternatively the intra-process communication mode of the ROS2 client library layer can also be used [[9][9]]. 

Furthermore, there are many additional features of ROS2 compared to ROS1 that are expected to enable the construction of complex yet stable applications: lifecycle management, improved launch system, improved parameter handling, security tools etc.

### ROS2 and ros2_control

Given the aforementioned features of ROS2, the integration of a robot driver as a standalone node and the utilization the standard ROS2 tools and interfaces to implement the control loop becomes a quite intriguing possibility. If the main features of ros_control are already built into ROS2, then in theory no additional control stack would be required (in its current form). This could result in a much simpler and more modular and flexible design, and also no additional control stack would need to be maintained and learnt on top of ROS2. Instead, the control stack would be built on the ROS2 framework, like any other ROS2 application. 

To evaluate this, let's have a look at the most important features that make ros_control great, how ros2_control improves and extends them (as of its current state and roadmap), and how an alternative control stack built on top of ROS2 could provide the same functionality:

- **Real-time support:**
  The ros_control framework is real-time friendly, and provides tools for connecting the real-time control processes with the non-real-time ROS1 system [[10][10]]. ros2_control keeps the same approach, and does not build on ROS2 being real-time friendly, i.e. the communication between the components is not realized via ROS2 interfaces and tools [[11][11]].

- **Hardware-agnostic design:**
  All hardware resources are integrated via a common interface, thus any robot can be controlled by the same control stack. The respective interface is being improved upon by ros2_control to provide more flexibility and access control. However, this feature is not driven by a lack of some capability in ROSX, and therefore a similar design should be possible via ROSX interfaces.

- **Lifecycle management:**
  ros_control provides a simple lifecycle for its controllers. ros2_control uses the LifecycleNode interface, but not over the rmw layer. A looser coupling of controllers and the controller manager could be achieved by using the lifecycle topics and services.

- **Resource conflict checking:**
  The controller_manager provides a safeguard against multiple controllers acquiring control over the same hardware resources, meaning that control signals for a resource should come from a single controller [[12][12]]. This is an important feature, yet not unique to hardware resources. It is also important to avoid conflicts and race conditions on all topics of the system, be it associated with path-planning, navigation, visualization, HMI etc., which is a challenging task in such modular systems as ROSX. Various new features of ROS2 such as DDS security access control [[13][13]], lifecycle management and the enhanced launch system are likely to be powerful enough to ensure that such constraints are enforced - not only for the control stack, but for the whole application. This is one of the more difficult things to achieve via ROS2, but the solutions would benefit any ROS2 applications, not just the control stack (and on the other hand, the solution could also be inspired by other applications as well)

- **Runtime command mode- and controller-switch**
  In rosX_control it is possible to change the command mode (e.g. position -> torque and) of hardware resources and to swap the active controllers in a single iteration of the real-time loop [[14][14]]. This is important in order to avoid time frames when no controller or multiple controllers would be commanding a hardware resource. Implementing this feature should also be possible via ROS2, but not trivial.

## Why the driver before the control stack

If there is to be an alternative control stack into which our driver should fit in, then one could say that the sensible thing to do would be to first design the framework, into which then the hardware resources and controllers could be integrated. If there is no control framework yet, how can we implement a driver that is conformant?

##### The main reason for starting with a driver:

Our goal itself was to have a driver for the LBR iiwa in ROS2 that we can use for a showcase application. When the project started in 2019, ros2_control was in an initial phase yet, and we also wanted to try out the new possibilities offered by ROS2. Thus, we started developing a driver to use for our application, and through the process also evaluating ROS2. Spoiler alert: the results so far are promising; that's why we are continuing on this path.

##### Justification for why this reverse order could nevertheless work:

The advantage of our envisioned control stack is that it doesn't need to be a framework in the same sense as rosX_control is. The framework is ROS2: interfaces, lifecycle, access control, system supervision etc. The control stack would only need to use these tools to realize the functionality required for (optionally) real-time control loops. It could be just like any other ROS2 application. And since ROSX is in large part about decoupling components that can be developed independently, developing a robot driver component, then developing a controller component and connecting them via launch configurations fits well with the ecosystem of ROS2. Of course, it remains to be seen whether this will actually work, and we expect to have to modify some parts of the driver as the control stack comes into life. However, this would-be control stack is still far off, and in the meantime we can easily connect some basic controller nodes to our driver for testing purposes or simple applications.

## Compatibility with ros2_control

Despite all the lengthy discussion on why we want to move away from ros2_control, we still want to provide some possibility of using our driver with it, since it is available today, many people know how to use it and will probably prefer to use it also in the future. It is also nice to have multiple alternative solutions anyways (especially if they are compatible), so users can choose the one that fits them best. There are multiple possibilities to ensure compatibility: providing wrappers, adapters, separating the outermost interface layers from the underlying logic etc. However, this is feature is rather low-priority for us at the moment. For people looking for a ROS2 Sunrise FRI driver simply integrated into ros2_control, there are already some implementations available on GitHub that might suit their use cases [[15][15]][[16][16]].

[1]: https://answers.ros.org/question/134551/why-is-ros-not-real-time/ "Why is ROS not real time?"

[2]: https://wiki.ros.org/ros_control/Ideas#Composite_Controllers "Composite Controllers"

[3]: https://wiki.ros.org/ros_control/Ideas#Realtime-friendly_dataflow_interface "Dataflow Interfaces"

[4]: http://control.ros.org/project_ideas.html#asynchronous-control-components "Asynchronous Control Components"

[5]: https://github.com/ros-controls/roadmap/pull/52 "One-shot/Trigger Interfaces"

[6]: https://www.apex.ai/roscon2019 "ROS2 RT"

[7]: https://www.eprosima.com/index.php/resources-all/performance/eprosima-fast-dds-performance "Fast DDS Performance"

[8]: https://discourse.ros.org/t/dds-implementation-performance-benchmark/19343 "Fast DDS vs CycloneDDS Performance"

[9]: https://docs.ros.org/en/foxy/Tutorials/Intra-Process-Communication.html "ROS2 intra-process communications"

[10]: http://wiki.ros.org/control_toolbox "control_toolbox"

[11]: http://control.ros.org/doc/getting_started/getting_started.html#architecture "ros2_control Architecture"

[12]: https://fjp.at/posts/ros/ros-control/#exclusive-resource-ownwership "ros_control Resource Ownership"

[13]: https://design.ros2.org/articles/ros2_access_control_policies.html "ROS2 Access Control"

[14]: https://fjp.at/posts/ros/ros-control/#controller-manager "Controller Manager"

[15]: https://github.com/KCL-BMEIS/lbr_fri_ros2_stack "LBR FRI ROS2 Stack"

[16]: https://github.com/ICube-Robotics/iiwa_ros2 "IIWA_ROS"
